We are gonna talk about functions and
we're gonna look at some text search.
So the section we're on here is like and
functions under the data section.
So imagine you're writing something where
people can like search for stuff, right?
Imagine someone can type
a little text string and
then it's gonna go search your
database to find things like that.
If someone says search for pota,
you would expect that to show up potatoes,
right, I think that's pretty reasonable.
So let's read that query, select star.
FROM ingredients
WHERE title= pota.
As you might guess,
that doesn't work, right, why?
Well, nothing equals potatoes, right?
It's actually doing like
a full equality check.
We need something that's
a little bit more fuzzy, right?
So the way that we can do that
is with something called LIKE.
So you can say a word title.
Instead of saying equals,
you're gonna say LIKE And
then you have to say WHERE is it LIKE,
right?
So if you wanna search for
everything where it's just like it
ends in pota you would do this.
You put the percent here.
And then, it would give you
anything that ends in pota,
obviously that's not anything.
So, if we put it here,
that means that pota
shows up somewhere in the string, right?
And there you go.
This would also match this, right, because
it does actually start with pota, okay?
And that is what LIKE does.
LIKE basically says like this is going
to show up somewhere in here and
I'll give you some sort
of pattern to match.
And again this won't show up anything
because you're not giving it any space.
Now there's still a problem with this
if I do capital P, well like this.
This capital is kind of making it
mess up because of this, right?
It's not matching that P, there's a couple
options here of things you can do.
We could do something like.
So LOWER is a function is gonna
take everything in title and
make it lowercase, right?
Same thing you could do upper and then you
just have to make sure that your search
string can contain uppercase characters
and that would also work as well.
That totally works, that's very okay.
But there's actually a lot
easier way to do that.
You can just say ILIKE,
which is insensitive like, right?
And then you get this it works
just fine it doesn't matter.
We can make this all
sorts of weird things.
So that's actually what you're gonna do.
I wanted to show you how to use a built-in
function because those end up being
pretty important.
In fact, we're gonna use another
one here in just a second.
So all right, we're writing our text
box that people can search for stuff.
If someone searches for fruit, we'll do
expect cherry to show up, probably, right?
It's very reasonable someone search for
fruit and expect cherry to show up.
So how do we do that?
The type does not exist in the title,
so how do we search across
multiple different columns.
A bunch of ways to do it, but
I'm gonna show you one of
the most straightforward ways.
Let's start FROM ingredients WHERE and
then we'll use this CONCAT function.
And we're gonna do title and type.
Then we're gonna say ILIKE fruit.
And there you go.
This will search across all these.
And because fruit shows up in the type,
these are all showing up despite the fact
that they don't show up in the title.
And CONCAT is exactly what you expect
to be it's just taking two strings and
shoving them together.
Now let me show you why this
ends up being a little weird,
it literally is just putting
strings together, right?
So what happens if I search for
something like rryfru?
Well, you're gonna get all
the berries because the rry and
the fru get pushed together into
matching that stream, right?
Now, for the most part,
if someone's searching for rryfru,
what the hell are they looking for,
right, I don't know.
You might as well give them something,
but that is a little bit strange so
you have to be kinda aware that
it's a little bit strange.
And I did want to show you that you
can use multiple these together.
Right, that does work and then you can do
Now except, yeah we're doing lower,
so that's why that doesn't match.
But you can do multiple
does functions change and
there's a bunch of those built
in functions to Postgres.
Most of the things that you expect
coming from like JavaScript and
stuff like that exist.
I think, Now is one of them
we can actually get like the time it
is right now there's a bunch of them.
That's kind of a fun little trick that
you can do with some of
these built in functions.
You can select LOWER,
It'll actually give you
the results of some of these.
If you want to try them out.
You just do select and
then whatever you wanna try.
Yeah, and so
I did leave you a link here in the ducts,
there is a ton a ton a ton a ton of
functions and operators to do here.
We are not even gonna like scratched the
surface and how many of them there are.
I think we're gonna do coalesce here in
a little bit because that one's really
useful.
But I showed you like now, you can do
like regular expressions if you're
feeling like you want to go and crazy,
like there's a lot of stuff you can do.
Exists, that's another one.
There's like arrays and such.
But not the point, we're not gonna
go too much into those today.
I just want you to know
that they are there.
Wanted to show you so
far I show the circuits.
I showed you the percentages which
basically means it matches 0 to many
things, right?
So, for example, if I put pota,
on the front side of this,
this is going to match zero characters,
right?
On the back side of this, this is
going to match a lot of characters.
So it's zero to many characters.
When I'm done,
I want to match exactly one character.
That's what this underscore does.
It matches precisely one character.
So if there was a, I don't know churi
in here or something like that,
it would also match that.
But the underscore there will
match exactly one character.
So again to try that home,
if you wanna do like berry,
this will match all berries, right?
But this would match any of them
because there's no aberry or bberry,
something like that, right?
So, and then again,
using those built in functions,
you can actually get into full regular
expressions if you want to, but
we're not gonna get into that because
I do not wanna do regular expressions.